document node17 compatibility (#395)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/appendices/migration-guides.md

## `2.14.0` -> `2.15.0`

### Node Version Support Change

> We now support node versions 14, 16, 17. If you are using node 12 you will need to update your node version (node 16 is recommended).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now support node versions 14, 16, 17. If you are using node 12 ([which reached it's end of life](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/)), you must update your node version (we recommend node 16).
```

Reviewer 2: our CI allows failures for node 17, so I don't think we can write that we support node 17

Author: it allows but it is not failing

> We now support node versions 14, 16, 17. So if you are using node 12 you will need to update your node version to one supported (16 recommended).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We now support node versions 14, 16, 17. If you are using node 12 you will need to update your node version (node 16 is recommended).
```

> In order to support node 17 we made changes that might impact your codebase:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support these latest node versions, we had to ugrade some dependencies. These upgrades imply changes that could impact your codebase:
```

> - ``@apollo/*` are only installed as sub-dependencies and therefore **should not be used**. In `2.15.0` you need to replace all uses of `@apollo/*` in your codebase with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable. Check [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=8fae8438d46200cbd310b16c30b3078da28b7d42) and [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=418a291f917660b18672b6be2eb2778cb51dfef9)/ e.g:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``@apollo/*` are only installed as sub-dependencies and therefore **should not be used directly**. In `2.15.0` you need to replace all uses of `@apollo/*` in your codebase with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable. Check [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=8fae8438d46200cbd310b16c30b3078da28b7d42) and [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=418a291f917660b18672b6be2eb2778cb51dfef9)/ e.g:
```

> - `@apollo/*` use is prohibited. `@apollo/client` is only installed in Front-Commerce because it is needed by one of our dependencies. Other `@apollo/*` dependencies are not a `front-commerce` direct dependency and therefore should not be used. To use `2.15.0` you need to remove all uses of `@apollo/*` usages in your codebase and replace them with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable. Check [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=8fae8438d46200cbd310b16c30b3078da28b7d42) and [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=418a291f917660b18672b6be2eb2778cb51dfef9)/ e.g:

Reviewer 3: I am unsure it is necessary to detail the reasons here :thinking: 

```suggestion
- ``@apollo/*` are only installed as sub-dependencies and therefore **should not be used**. In `2.15.0` you need to replace all uses of `@apollo/*` in your codebase with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable. Check [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=8fae8438d46200cbd310b16c30b3078da28b7d42) and [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=418a291f917660b18672b6be2eb2778cb51dfef9)/ e.g:
```

```diff
-import { useLazyQuery, useQuery, useMutation } from "@apollo/react-hooks";
+import { useLazyQuery, useQuery, useMutation } from "react-apollo";
```

> - resolvers for fields not in the `schema` now throws errors. To avoid this remove all unneeded `field`/`Type` resolvers that do not have a representation in the GraphQL `schema`. Check our [cleaning commit](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1216/diffs?commit_id=1e2e04e7f28dba2ebd36da50701478a13a58a238) regarding this issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Resolvers for fields not in the `schema` now throw errors. To avoid this remove all unneeded `field`/`Type` resolvers that do not have a representation in the GraphQL `schema`. Check our [cleaning commit](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1216/diffs?commit_id=1e2e04e7f28dba2ebd36da50701478a13a58a238) regarding this issue.
```

- `makeApolloClientStub` now expects resolvers as an argument instead of mocks. This in in tandem with the [`graphql-tools` upgrade notes](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/mocking#migration-from-v7-and-below). Note that we provided an adapter that converts `mocks` to `resolvers` so that old tests are not affected. However it is recommended to make the change. To disable the adapter's warning set `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_PRINT_MAKEAPOLLOCLIENTSTUB_MOCKS_DEPRECATION_WARNING` environment variable to `"false"`.
- The use of `SchemaVisitor`/`SchemaDirectiveVisitor` to implement GraphQL directive is deprecated and it is replaced by the use of the [new API](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/schema-directives). We implemented an adapter so that uses of `SchemaVisitor`/`SchemaDirectiveVisitor` will not break, however it is recommended to make the change. Please note that the adapter only supports the use of `visitFieldDefinition` function of the `SchemaVisitor`/`SchemaDirectiveVisitor` class. If you have use for other functions and cannot make the change to the new API please contact us for help.

> - When using node 17 you need to prefix your npm commands by `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider` e.g. `NODE_OPTIONS=--oenssl-legacy-provider npm start`, `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider npm run build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using node 17 you need to prefix your npm commands by `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider` e.g. `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider npm start`, `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider npm run build`.
```

> - When using npm >= 8.5 you need to add `--legacy-peer-deps` to npm install commands. e.g. `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`, `npm i some_dependency --legacy-peer-deps`.

Reviewer 3: Are this line and the previous one  also documented in the readme and on the [installation documentation page](https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/essentials/installation.html#Installation-using-the-skeleton) ?

Author: good point

Author: done please check

If you had overriden the `Orders` (`theme/pages/Account/Orders/Orders.js`) component, you might want to update it to use the new GraphQL field and add a pagination component.

### Node Version Support Change

We now support node versions 14, 16, 17. If you are using node 12 ([which reached it's end of life](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/)), you must update your node version (we recommend node 16).

To support these latest node versions, we had to ugrade some dependencies. These upgrades imply changes that could impact your codebase:

- You need to update to the latest version of your `front-commerce-skeleton`

> - ``@apollo/*` are only installed as sub-dependencies and therefore **should not be used directly**. In `2.15.0` you need to replace all uses of `@apollo/*` in your codebase with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable.

Author: ```suggestion
- `@apollo/*` are only installed as sub-dependencies and therefore **should not be used directly**. In `2.15.0` you need to replace all uses of `@apollo/*` in your codebase with `react-apollo`, or `graphql-tag` imports where applicable.
```

<details>
<summary><strong>CLICK HERE to check if you overrode any file that you need to apply the changes to</strong></summary>

> <table>

Reviewer 2: a table for non tabular data? come on we are in 2022

<tr>
<td>

> `cypress/support/addToCart.js`

Reviewer 2: this one can not be overriden

```diff
-import { gql } from "@apollo/client";
+import gql from "graphql-tag";
```

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

> `cypress/support/emptyCart.js`

Reviewer 2: same

```

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

`src/web/theme/pages/Account/DownloadableProduct/EnhanceDownloadableProduct.js`

```diff
-         * @param {import('@apollo/react-hoc/lib/types').OptionProps<any, GraphQLData, any>} param0
+         * @param {import('react-apollo').OptionProps<any, GraphQLData, any>} param0
```

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

`src/web/theme/pages/Orders/Orders.js`

```diff
-import { useLazyQuery } from "@apollo/react-hooks";
+import { useLazyQuery } from "react-apollo";
```

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

`src/web/theme/pages/Product/useProductBySkuLoader.js`

```diff
-import { useQuery } from "@apollo/react-hooks";
+import { useQuery } from "react-apollo";
```

</td>
</tr>

</table>

</details>

- If after the above fixes there is still `@apollo/*` dependencies and you are not sure how to resolve please contact us for support. You can also check [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=8fae8438d46200cbd310b16c30b3078da28b7d42) and [here](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1215/diffs?commit_id=418a291f917660b18672b6be2eb2778cb51dfef9) for the changes we did to our codebase.

> 

Reviewer 2: empty line not needed

> - Resolvers for fields not in the `schema` now throw errors. To avoid this remove all unneeded `field`/`Type` resolvers that do not have a representation in the GraphQL `schema`. Check our [cleaning commit](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1216/diffs?commit_id=1e2e04e7f28dba2ebd36da50701478a13a58a238) regarding this issue.

Reviewer 4: This first sentense is missing a verb I guess? It might be only me though, but I would add this :
```suggestion
- Resolvers for fields that are not in the `schema` now throw errors. To avoid this remove all unneeded `field`/`Type` resolvers that do not have a representation in the GraphQL `schema`. Check our [cleaning commit](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/1216/diffs?commit_id=1e2e04e7f28dba2ebd36da50701478a13a58a238) regarding this issue.
```

> - `makeApolloClientStub` now expects resolvers as an argument instead of mocks. This in in tandem with the [`graphql-tools` upgrade notes](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/mocking#migration-from-v7-and-below). Note that we provided an adapter that converts `mocks` to `resolvers` so that old tests are not affected. However it is recommended to make the change. To disable the adapter's warning set `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_PRINT_MAKEAPOLLOCLIENTSTUB_MOCKS_DEPRECATION_WARNING` environment variable to `"false"`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `makeApolloClientStub` now expects resolvers as an argument instead of mocks. This is in tandem with the [`graphql-tools` upgrade notes](https://www.graphql-tools.com/docs/mocking#migration-from-v7-and-below). Note that we provided an adapter that converts `mocks` to `resolvers` so that old tests are not affected. However it is recommended to make the change. To disable the adapter's warning set `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_PRINT_MAKEAPOLLOCLIENTSTUB_MOCKS_DEPRECATION_WARNING` environment variable to `"false"`.
```

- When using node 17 you need to prefix your npm commands by `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider` e.g. `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider npm start`, `NODE_OPTIONS=--openssl-legacy-provider npm run build`.
- When using npm >= 7 you need to add `--legacy-peer-deps` to npm install commands. e.g. `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`, `npm i some_dependency --legacy-peer-deps`.

<ul>
  <li>
    For good measures reinstall your dependencies after the update:
    <ul>
      <li>
        With npm < 7
          ```sh
          rm -rf ./node_modules/
          npm install
          ```
      </li>
      <li>
        With npm >= 7
          ```sh
          rm -rf ./node_modules/
          npm install --legacy-peer-deps
          ```
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>

> </ul>

Reviewer 4: Now we add the problem with dependencies not updating because of the `package-lock.json`, I wonder if we should add `rm package-lock.json` in those instructions (for npm > 8.5~ish)? It doesn't look like a good idea, but just `npm install` doesn't seem to do much now (with or without removing `node_modules`).

Author: yes I put the `rm -rf ./node_modules/` which deletes the node modules followed by `npm install`

Reviewer 4: Not the `node_modules`, I was talking about removing the `package-lock.json` directly
